The President:
Hi, everybody.
Seven years after the worst
economic crisis in generations,
our economy continues to
grow and create jobs.
In fact, our businesses have
created 13 million new jobs
over the past five
and a half years.
But if we want to keep this
momentum going - to make sure
that working families feel
like their hard work is being
rewarded with a basic sense
of security - then we all
need to do our part.
That's why my Administration
has been partnering with
states and cities to help
grow the middle class.
Over the past few years,
nearly 20 cities and
counties have implemented
paid sick days.
Six states have enacted paid
sick days or paid family leave.
Seventeen states, and more than
two dozen cities and counties,
have raised their
minimum wage.
All of this will help
working families.
And across the country, folks
are proving that preparing all
our kids for the future doesn't
have to be a partisan issue.
Seattle, a city with a
Democratic mayor, just passed
universal pre-k, while
Indianapolis, a city with
a Republican mayor, is starting
citywide preschool scholarships.
All told, 34 states have
increased funding for preschool.
And that's good
for all of us.
Now, we need Congress
to do its part to
boost the
economy, as well.
Unfortunately, Congress left
town for five full weeks - and
they left behind a stack
of unfinished business.
For the first time ever,
Congress failed to
reauthorize the
Export-Import Bank.
That left thousands of business
owners and their employees
at a serious disadvantage
compared to their
competitors overseas.
That's not good for jobs.
It's not good for our economy.
When it returns from recess,
reauthorizing the bank ought
to be a top agenda for
members of Congress.
Congress also hasn't passed a
budget - and when they return
from vacation, they'll only have
a few weeks to do so, or shut
down the government for the
second time in two years.
They've had all
year to do this.
Months ago, I put forward a
detailed plan to strengthen our
economy and our national
security in a fiscally
responsible way.
And for months, I've said I
will veto any budget that locks
in the sequester-those
senseless cuts to domestic
and national
security priorities.
Remember, we can't cut
our way to prosperity.
We should be investing
in things that help our
economy grow today and
tomorrow, like education
or infrastructure or
scientific research.
Democrats in Congress have made
it clear they're ready to sit
down and work with Republicans
to find common ground on this.
After all, Americans expect
Congress to help keep our
country strong and growing
- not threaten to shut
down our government.
When Congress gets back, they
should prevent a shutdown,
pass a responsible budget,
and prove that this is a
country that looks forward
- a country that invests in
our future, and keeps
our economy growing for
all Americans.
Thanks, everybody and
have a great weekend.